Let's talk about Vite, and I did check it is pronounced that way. You can call it
Vite, but it's supposed to be French for quick. That's what I'm told. I don't speak French.
So Vite, a pretty cool project from the creator of Vue. What I found kind of interesting about
Vite is it's not actually the the bundler. The bundler is roll up, right, and it has been since
the beginning, I think. They just put in a lot of much better developer experience around
roll up, because roll up is a difficult thing to tune and get working correctly.
Roll up is great, especially for bundling modules and things that you're going to publish,
but it's not made for developer experience. It's made for performance.
It's why I taught Parcel for so long as part of this course. I still like Parcel. You're very
welcome to use Parcel, but Vite has kind of just won at this point, right? Everyone tends to use
just Vite. There's not really a lot of questions. The tooling around it just keeps getting better
and better. You'll see when we get to the testing part of it. Vite makes Vite test very easy to use,
and they're just making it better. They've founded a company around it now,
and they're going to change from roll up to roll down as their bundler.
Yeah, roll down, which is a Rust-based bundler for JavaScript.
It's kind of cool. It's going to do a bunch of stuff for us. Right now, we had one file being
imported into one index.html directory, and that works with no build step, but now what happens if
we want to have multiple files, and we want to import in, and we want to pull in different
libraries and stuff like that. The complexity just ratchets up exponentially, and so Vite kind
of helps us tame that down to just like, you can just kind of read and write files as if they were
already present, which ends up being really helpful. It makes pulling things from npm very easy,
and it'll handle everything like minifying our code, all the other optimizing techniques that
you don't really want to have to think about. They've already thought about that for you,
so you don't have to worry about it. Previous versions, we used Parcel, awesome projects.
They also might use roll up. No, I think they actually wrote their own bundler. Anyway,
Parcel's cool, and the old mainstay webpack, which has been around forever.
So we're going to do this though. We're going to get Vite at 5.4.2 and Vite.js plugin react. These
are kind of our two minimum requirements to get started with Vite. So we're just going to copy
and paste that in here, and that should install our stuff for us. Okay.
And then what we're going to do here is we're going to go to index.html,
close this for a second. We want to get rid of these two script tags.
And then from here, you have to do one more thing. You're going to have to say type equals
module. You need to let Vite know that you're going to be working with modules. And actually,
I don't think it even works with CommonJS anymore. They basically just said like, look,
if you want to be using Vite, you got to be on esmodules. That's what we've been talking
about this entire time. That's all. It shouldn't be a big deal. But yeah, make sure you add that
type equals module or it's going to yell at you. Okay. Now make a Vite.config.js files.
And we are going to do import define config, not from rollup, from Vite.
We're going to import react from at Vite.js plugin slash react. Cool. And then we're going
to export default, define config. And we're going to have plugins. Again, I just love this auto
completion. And it's going to be an array. We're going to give it react, which is a function that
you have to invoke. And you should end up with something like this. So at its most basic Vite
handles most of this stuff out of the box. You don't really have to configure it very much.
The only thing that we have to say is like, this is a react project. You're going to have to do
react type things. And that's it. Okay. Let's go back to our terminal.
And we're going to do npm i or install whatever you want, but not the dash capital D because
we're going to install some production dependencies, not dev dependencies. As a total
side note, it really doesn't matter very much because you're always going to build your project
before it goes out to production. So whether it's the dev dependency or not, everything gets
installed every time. But some people find that distinction extremely important. So npm install
react. We're going to do at 18.3.1 and react at, oh yeah, sorry. React dash Dom at 18.3.1. Now,
again, people are asking me like, why are we not doing 19? 19 still is not officially stable yet.
It's in release candidate. It's stable-ish. And we'll talk about it at the end of the course.
But once react 19 is stable, then we will come back and we'll do complete intro to react V10.
Will this course work with 19? Almost certainly. They're not changing very much. They're not taking
very much out. Everything that I am teaching you today applies 100% to 19. They've already told us
all the stuff they're taking out. I'm not teaching you any of that stuff. It's just that. So extremely
likely that if 19 is out by the time that you're watching this course, you could just use 19. But
if you do 18.3.1, I can guarantee you everything I tested with 18. And also everything applies
to 19. So have no fear of taking this even with react 18. Interesting. It says that there's a
security vulnerability. By the way, by the time that you watch this course, there will certainly
be lots of security vulnerabilities. That's very normal. I'm not telling you to install a Bitcoin
miner on your computer. Just mine, not anyone else's. So don't worry too much about that.
If you want to, you can see if npm audit fix will work. Sometimes it doesn't. Oh, look, we did. I
did it. We fixed it. I fixed the internet. All right. All this does is it goes and finds a package
to use if there's a patch version that's available that just fixes the problem. If it does, then it
installs that. That's all it does. Okay. Let's go use Vite. So we're going to go to our source
directory. And the first thing I want to do here is we have deleted these script tags from our HTML.
So that means React is no longer available in our project. Right? So in app.js, we're going to go
import React so that we can use it. We're going to say import React from React and import create root
from React-dom. And then down here, I think we'll have to go delete the, yeah, React-dom.
Okay. So Vite will take care of plugging in React here so that all these React references will now
work. Right? And when you have no curly braces here, this means import the entire library as one
top-level object. Right? Or maybe a different way of saying import whatever the library author has
designated as the default export of whatever React is. And I will say that's normally all of the
things as one giant object, but doesn't have to be. And then this is called a named import where
you're saying go to the React-dom library and only get the create root function in this particular
case. That's what those curly braces mean. This is a default export. This is a named export.
Okay. First of all, one of the cool things is I think we fixed lint. I think if you say npm run
lint, you should get no errors now because now there's no globals. Right? We know where everything
is coming from. So that's pretty cool. And now let's go and make it so that we can actually run
Vite to actually run our server. So I want you to go to your package.json, and we're going to add
a couple more things into our scripts. I don't know why I have a habit of keeping these alphabetized,
but it just became a compulsion one day and I just never stopped it.
So build, Vite build, dev, Vite, and preview is Vite preview.
I don't know. Some people might say, like, well, this looks better like this. I don't know.
Honestly, it doesn't really matter what the order here. Whatever you want to do is fine with me.
So let's talk about these commands we put in here. Nine times out of ten when you come to
your local development environment, you're just going to say Vite and you're just going to get
going. So you can do npm run dev and start your project. I have such strong muscle memory to go
do npm run dev for any project I get into that I make sure that that's always the command that I
want to run. Build, this is something that you would run like in a GitHub action that would
actually build the project into like static assets and such that then you could ship off to Vercell
or AWS or Netlify or Fly or something like that, and you could serve those from there.
And then preview is kind of an interesting one. I don't know if you've ever had a bug that only
seemed to manifest whenever you built the project as opposed to running on the dev server.
Preview aims to help with that. It's like I'm going to build this for production and then I'm
going to serve it to you as if this was a production box to help you kind of figure out those problems.
I almost never use it, but when I do need to use it, I'm glad it's there.
And then one more thing, make sure you add a type module.
Again, the order here is not important.
This is just telling any tool that uses your project, this uses es modules as opposed to
using common JS, which is the require style. So that can be helpful as well.
All right. So now in theory, npm run dev. You should get something that looks somewhat akin to this.
So you might be wondering why five, one, seven, three.
I did two. That's why I went and looked it up. What's five in Roman numerals? V. Do you get it now?
V-I-T-E. Roman numerals and Leeds speak. Yeah. I mean, I was like, that's a stretch for sure, guys.
Yeah. But you can see now this all still works exactly the way that it was before,
but now we're using imports for our react stuff and it's being served on five, one, seven, three.
So go back to app.js. And I fixed it here already. But you see react-dom. This is originally what I
had in here, the react-dom. You just need to put react-dom slash client. This is the old way of
writing it. This is the way that people used to write it, which is why it's still kind of burned
in my brain. And I think it'll work through react-18, but they might break it in react-19
or react-20 or something like that. So just put react-dom slash client and everything should work.